CI/CD

Jenkins is a CI/CD tool

     The goal is a shorter release cycle.
     So end users can get new version of application, with new features of with fixed bugs, faster.

     Faster software release --> better software --> higher client satisfaction

     Before releasing a new software, regression testing MUST be executed.

     Regression testing can be done manually or automatically.

     Manually takes time, less accurate.

     If regression testing is done manually, forget about short release cycles, and it can take some weeks.
     If done automatically, it can take few hours.

     Because of parallel testing and running up to 35-40 browsers at once, automation is necessary through
     multiple servers to distribute tests and execute them faster.
     Regression can run in stage environment as well.

     At least, every company have to have 4 environments: dev --> qa --> stage --> production
     All environments have same application, but with different version.
     Newest version in dev, oldest in production.

     Every environment has it's own database, and all of them, except PRODUCTION, have dummy/fake data.

        #dev - reserved for developers, once changes were committed, devs can build a new version
        of software and deploy it to dev environment.
               dev.vytrack.com

        #qa - reserved for testers, this is where we do testing
              qa.vytrack.com

        #stage - preparation for release, this is where performance and UAT testing can be done before release
                 stage.vytrack.com

        #production - environment of end-user, real data
                      vytrack.com

CI - Continues Integration
     it's a process of continuous and automated building of new code changes
     or
     it's software development practice, where developers use vcs and integrate frequently their changes.
     also, those changes will be automatically tested. (code quality scans, unit and integration tests)
     encourage developers to commit changes often, so they can be tested and integrated into main branch.
     Also, developers will receive a feedback more often.

     it's easier to digest small pieces little by little rather digesting huge bulk at once.

CD - Continues Delivery / Continues Deployment

     deployment - process of creating a new build and delivering it to the application server.
     application server - program that makes webb application running and accessible over the vrowser.